Dell buddy are you okay your XPS laptops
recently have been both incredibly
engineered and just the worst things
that I have seen in a long time because
of decisions that you did not need to
make so I'm in the very strange position
where I'm going to be recommending this
right here this is the new Dell Inspiron
16 plus and it looks to be even better
than the XPS 16 because it's not stupid
haa up first is our power adapter this
thing will deliver 130 wats and that is
over USB type-c love to see it plug it
in turn it on Wow here it is this is
just a big slab of laptop right here
there is so little design going on and
I'd like to say that I want a bit more
of that but we have seen what happens
when Dell goes full in on design you end
up with things like no IO fortunately we
have that here a Micro SD card slot
headphone microphone combo Jack thank
you Dell don't remove that from your
other laptops USB type A another type A
wow they know that exists too we also
have Thunderbolt 4 HDMI 2.1 one of the
strangest is that on the igpu version
the HDMI is 1.4 which means you can't
even do 4K out of it so be very careful
when you're looking between the two
models because the one with the dgpu and
the igpu are completely different this
is the power brick that came with this
right yep yes why is there a barrel Jack
hole over here apparently this might be
because people that already have
deployments of a whole bunch of these
maybe they want to use a barrel Jack
with their existing systems I don't know
it's kind of strange you'd expect this
to just be like another type c or
something like that the first thing that
I'm noticing that is a huge upgrade
compared to the XPS series is the fact
that this is just nice to touch all of
the edges are nice and rounded there's
nothing sharp what I am sure of is that
it feels good
what I'm not as sure of is the size of
this trackpad on First Look I feel like
they could have definitely made it a
little bit bigger there are of course
some other things that let you know that
this isn't a $33,000 laptop we don't
have any Gorilla Glass here and the
plastic around the bezels not the
greatest in the world it probably makes
the screen pretty easy to replace but we
have a matte display and we also have
this Segway to our sponsor motion gry
motion Gray's sit desks come in a
variety of models sizes with easy to
follow instructions and all the tools
you need for assembly included right in
the Box check out their Ergo 2 Series
some of the most affordable desks of
their type on the market with a two
segment frame and a quiet but powerful
single motor it has a height adjustment
range of 28 to 46 in and supports up to
176 lb of weight that's about 80 kg for
y'all metric folk pick up one through
our Link in the description and use code
Linus to save 10% off your purchase 4.8
lb that is quite a bit of heft for a
machine like this and when you combine
that with the power brick that is 5.8 lb
that you're going to have to carry
around in your backpack that's going to
be quite a bit to have on your back and
you can comment down below about how oh
I had a gaming laptop and I was able to
I don't care that's quite a bit of way
this display is not the greatest that
I've ever seen if I'm honest I was
expecting it not to be the best ever
this is not a top-end laptop and it does
not come with OLED or anything crazy
like that but when I saw that it was
Quad HD 120 HZ 300 nit Peak brightness
isn't great but the rest of it sounded
very promising but the let down is that
it's just kind of grainy and I don't
understand why there's no touchscreen
digitizer to get in the way you guys are
just going to have to trust me on this
one but it's just not what I was
expecting when I saw the specs of this
display it is still really quite good
given the price point it's just not
quite where I wanted it to be looking at
the labs test results this display does
measure quite well we're able to get 326
nits Peak brightness Which is higher
than the 300 that's advertised with a
Delta e2000 of 2.29 you would definitely
be able to use it to video or photo edit
in a pinch even if it isn't something
that I would trust if it is my
professional job to do stuff like that
but it should be noted that you do not
want to switch this out of the default
color profile that gets you nice srgb
everything else is going to just look
strange and probably in ways that you
don't want one other thing that is a
little bit odd about this display is
that you have the options of 120 HZ or
48 HZ o that's
some 48 HZ does not feel good 60 you can
kind of get away with 120 feels way
better all right let's have a look at
what's under the hood for the processor
we have an Intel core Ultra 7
155h that has 16 cores six performance
eight efficiency and two low power
efficiency cores and those performance
cores will go up to 4.8 GHz making this
quite a rapid little guy we also have 16
GB of RAM at 5600 megga transfers per
second and it says form factor so DM O
So this might be upgradeable I love to
see that we also have a 1 TB mvme SSD
Wi-Fi 6 E from Intel like to see that
Intel's npu which does not meet the
minimum specs for co-pilot even though
they did steal a key for co-pilot and
also an Nvidia RTX 4060 now this is
going to be a little bit of a
controversial pick so you can go for the
4060 in this but you only get 60 watts
of power out of this chassis which is
not going to be getting you the full
performance of that keyboard
you know what I really like this
keyboard it has a very satisfying snap
to the key travel and the stability of
these Keys is fantastic like look if I
push on the corner whole thing going
down way before it's getting below the
chassis I think I'm going to give this
keyboard a solid a and bonus points
still for having an actual Escape key in
function row and I don't have those
stupid Capac what is certainly not going
to be getting an a though is the track
pad the size I can get over it's made
out of myar instead of
glass I'm going to give the track pad of
B minus I expect Intel CPUs to run hot
but we're in the menu and it's already
at 100 like oh dear oh God what's
happening why is this so terrible this
is actually unplayable right now all
right we are back in rocket league but I
have Hardware info open we are looking
at 100 on the core but we are not
having any more issues with the dropping
down to like 7 FPS maybe what we needed
was just a restart so if you're looking
at a laptop that is mostly just for like
schoolwork and office stuff and things
like that but on occasion you want to be
able to game this is probably going to
be a pretty good option all right we've
now been playing rocket league for 2
minutes this is not a very accurate way
to do this but 46 where's here 46.8 all
of it is very hot labs when they were
doing their testing and they had
extended gaming sessions found that the
keyboard got up to 53 C which is the
sort of thing that will actually burn
you if you touch it for too long that
said the keys themselves are pretty nice
and cool and the bits that I'm actually
touching are okay but everything
surrounding the keys will actually give
you a first-degree burn if you hold your
hands there for long enough ow and in
here we have a four speaker setup two on
top two on the bottom this is another
situation where dedicated graphics gets
four speakers integrated only gets two
totally different laptops but let's see
if it
[Music]
bumps ooh that's even better when you
have a solid surface below you the
treble bounces off of it and it actually
sounds really quite decent I think given
the price of this those are perfectly
acceptable speakers hopefully we'll be
able to actually do proper testing on
the sound of laptop soon I am very
excited for that all right let's see how
the webcam looks it's really not too bad
it's exposing well for my face there is
definitely some ghosting issues but it
is 1080p okay it does definitely
struggle at times like I am both blown
out and look like that I have been in
the sun without sunscreen for 48 hours
but if you're lit in a somewhat
reasonable way it is able to figure it
out and if you want people not looking
at you boom there's a little switch
right there that just completely
disables it I love to see that thank you
for putting it on there Dell
unfortunately we don't have any IR
emitters so we don't have Windows hello
facial recognition but we do have a
little fingerprint reader right here so
you can get into your laptop nice and
easy nine Phillips screws later two of
which are captive so they pop this off
we are inside and this is actually
looking incredible for upgradeability
given that the year is
2024 we have our SSD right here and spot
for a second SSD right here now the
second SSD will have to be a very small
boy but at the same time you can get 2
tbte ssds of this size Chuck it in there
it's way better than nothing and that's
what most other brands will give you we
also have an upgradeable Wi-Fi card
right here so you can go to Wi-Fi 7 in
the future if you so choose and the most
incredible bit we have upgradable Ram
soams hell yes so many laptop makers are
either going to just not having any
upgrade ability or just even worse the
chip makers aren't even allowing it
looking at the cooling solution it is
shockingly robust given the CPU
temperatures in here we have four heat
pipes two fans and we also have four
heat sinks which looks like it should be
able to dissipate a fair bit of heat
well not that one's going straight into
a hitge but the rest should be able to
dissipate a fair bit of heat even if it
didn't really do that in the real world
what I suspect is if you rip this thing
off and throw some liquid metal in there
you'll be able to get much better
temperatures and if you're going in here
to like upgrade the Ram or something in
a couple of years anyway that might
really bring this thing back from the
dead what certainly won't be dead though
is this laptop well it will die
eventually but it will take quite some
time because it has a 90w hour battery
in it we able to see over 10 hours of
battery life on this away from the wall
which is quite impressive given that it
has a dgpu and an Intel CPU one final
test for upgradeability wow they have a
super small SSD in here by default so
you could just Chuck it right there get
a fullsize SSD and Bam you're off to the
race and it passes the double-sided SSD
test so you can check a double-sided SSD
in there the repairability of this has
really helped my overall opinion of it
so many laptops don't have that so then
the Dell Inspiron 16 plus is this a
laptop that you want if you want to do
hardcore gaming hardcore video editing
professional photo editing really
hardcore anything at all no
but this is a laptop that is not crap at
anything it has good enough gaming
performance a great keyboard a good
enough display if you're just doing
casual video editing or photo editing
and it will just be a friend for a long
time because you can upgrade it man have
I mentioned yet that you can upgrade it
it's just a pretty good laptop just like
you're a pretty good viewer hit like get
subscribed and just have a great old day
see you later